DRAFT PROPOSAL LOMBA FPS XXVI ITB 2020
Activities
STAGE REHEARSAL
Participants are allowed to test the acoustics in the hall and set the visual blocking on the stage.
OPENING CEREMONY
The opening ceremony of Festival Paduan Suara XXVI ITB 2020.
CHOIR COMPETITION 
The main event of Festival Paduan Suara XXVI ITB 2020. Each participant will perform their best performance in their respective categories.        
WORKSHOP
Workshops to be delivered by choir experts. This activity is to be opened for public. Each workshop participant will get a chance to learn more about choir from the experts.
FRIENDSHIP CONCERT
A concert by the participants of Festival Paduan Suara XXVI ITB 2020 from many places.
AWARDING NIGHT & CLOSING CEREMONY
The closing ceremony of Festival Paduan Suara XXVI ITB 2020. The winners of Festival Paduan Suara XXVI ITB 2020 will be announced. 
MEET THE JURY
A session where participants and juries have a chance to discuss and evaluate their performance.
FESTIVAL GRUP VOKAL
A vocal group competition for ITB students only.


Schedule and Venue
No
	Event
	Date and Month
	Venue
	1
	Technical Meeting
	1st August 2020
	Online
	2
	Opening Ceremony
	1st September 2020
	ITB Ganesha Campus
	3
	Stage Rehearsal
	1st-2nd September 2020
	ITB West Hall
	4
	Competition Round
	2nd-4th September 2020
	ITB Ganesha Campus
	5
	Grand Prix Round
	6th September 2020
	ITB Ganesha Campus
	6
	Awarding Night and Closing Ceremony
	6th September 2020
	ITB Ganesha Campus
	7
	Workshop
	September 2020
	ITB Ganesha Campus
	8
	Friendship Concert
	September 2020
	To be announced
	9
	Meet The Jury
	September 2020
	ITB Ganesha Campus
	10
	Vocal Group Festival
	April 2020
	ITB Ganesha Campus
	






General Requirements


The participants of FPS XXVI ITB 2020 are children, youth, and adult choirs.
1. All choir members or singers, except for the conductor and musicians, must be amateurs.
2. There should be no singer and/or conductor that represents more than one choir.
3. Participants are allowed to participate in more than one category if the requirements of those categories can be met, but singers from choirs that are listed in the University Choir category cannot be listed in the Adult Choir category and vice versa.
4. If the participant is participating in multiple categories, the song that is sung in one category must be different from the song that is sung in other categories. 
        The songs that are sung in each category must be different
5. All categories consist of two rounds, which are the Qualification Round and the Competition Round.
        Each/every category consists of two rounds
6. In the Qualification Round, participants must send the program according to the requirements of the category alongside with one song recording that was recorded after September 1st 2017.
7. Every song that is sung either in the Qualification Round or the Competition Round must be in its original language or its official translated version.
8. Every song listed in the program for the Competition Round must have the approval of the Board of Artistic Directors. 
9. If the song that will be performed is in a language other than Bahasa Indonesia and/or English, the participant must include a summary of the song.
10. The accompaniment that is allowed is the original accompaniment which is composed by the composer or the official piano reduction version (that has been released or authorized). - Iringan musik yang diperbolehkan adalah iringan asli yang merupakan gubahan komponis atau versi piano reduction yang resmi (telah diterbitkan atau telah terotorisasi).
        The accompaniment that is used must be the original accompaniment (composed by the composer or the piano reduction version which has been officially released or authorized).
11. Every participant is required to provide musical instruments and musicians if needed. The committee only provides a grand piano on stage.
12. The use of sound systems and recorded material in any form are prohibited.
13. Every participant uses and submits the published or authorized score (which has the permission from the song writer). If the participant doesn’t use the published or authorized score, which causes copyright infringement, this matter is outside the responsibility of the committee.
        The committee is not responsible for any copyright infringement caused by participants. (?)
14. The music sheets given to the committee must be in block notation. 
15. Every category winner from the Competition Round will proceed to the Grand Prix Round.


________________


Categories
Code
	Category Name
	Composition
	Age* group (years)
	No. of Choristers
(persons)
	A
	Children’s Choir
	Divided into min. 2 voices (SA)
	6 to 12 
	20 to 45 
	B
	Teenagers’ Choir
	Divided into min. 3 voices (S(S)A(A))
	11 to 15
	C
	Youth Choir
	Mixed choir is divided into min. 4 voices (SATB)


Equal Voice Choir is divided into min. 3 voices (S(S)A(A) or T(T)B(B))
	15 to 18
	D
	University Choir**
	17 to  25
	E
	Adult Choir
	 ≥ 17
(Non-
university)
	24 to 36
	F
	Indonesian Folk Song
	-
	20 to 45
	G
	Popular Song
	-
	*) Age of choristers by September 1st, 2020
**) Participants listed in University Choir category must not participate in Adult Choir category, and vice versa. 


________________


Category Provisions
Qualification Round
Each participant needs to address :
1. A list of song programs presented at the Competition Round,
2. A recording of live performance (unedited) with the following conditions :

	

Recording provisions :
1. Video recording is uploaded to youtube, with the 'unlisted' settings.
2. The participant needs to enter the youtube link during online registration.
3. Costumes and movements do not affect judgment in the qualification round.


















Competition Round
(Andre)


Each participant will perform songs of the following criteria:


Category
	Programme
	Remarks
	Category A
Childrens Choir
	1. A composition or arrangement in Indonesian language by Indonesian composer
2. A free repertoire
	1. Accompaniment can be used
2. Songs in a cappella will be more appreciated
3. Each song has a different feel
	Category B
Teenagers Choir
	1. A composition or arrangement in Indonesian language by Indonesian composer
2. A free repertoire
	1. Accompaniment can be used
2. Songs in a cappella will be more appreciated
3. Each song has a different feel
	Category C
Youth Choir
	1. A composition composed before 1700
2. A composition in Indonesian language by Indonesian composer
3. A free repertoire
	A maximum of 1 song is allowed to be performed with accompaniment.
	Category D
University Choir
	1. A composition composed before 1900
2. A composition in Indonesian language by Indonesian composer that is composed after 2000
3. A free repertoire
	Category E
Adult Choir
	1. A composition composed before 1900
2. A composition in Indonesian language by Indonesian composer that is composed after 2000
3. A free repertoire created after 2000
	Category F
Indonesian Folk Song
	1. Two (2) authentic Indonesian folk songs
2. Each song has a different feel and originated from different provinces - pilihan lagu harus berbeda nuansa dan berasal dari dua provinsi yang berbeda
	1. Authentic pieces are performed as with the original tradition, i.e. arrangement, instruments, and choreography - otentik berarti dibawakan sesuai dengan tradisi daerah asal (contoh: aransemen, alat musik, dan koreografi)
2. Each song has to be arranged by different composers
3. One song has to be arranged after 2010
4. Both songs are performed a cappella (indefinite pitch instruments are allowed)
5. A maximum of one song are allowed to be performed with traditional instruments
	Category G
Popular Song
	1. An Indonesian popular song with secular text
2. A non-Indonesian popular song with secular text
	1. Both songs are not gospel and spiritual songs
2. A minimum of one song is to be performed a cappella
3. The song lyrics are to be subjected to follow the existing norms
	



Grand Prix Round
1. The best choir from each category that is selected by the Jurors Committee will participate in Grand Prix Round
2. Participants will perform two (2) free repertoire
3. Participants will only be allowed to perform one (1) song from their previous competition round
4. Participants from category A and B are allowed to perform with accompaniment for both songs
5. Participants from other categories (category C, D, E, F, and G) have to perform at least one song a cappella, and is allowed to use indefinite pitch instruments
6. There are no stage rehearsals


Performance Qualification
1. Stage Entrance and Exit course
Participants can only enter and exit the stage by using the courses provided by the committee. 
2. Repertoires
Participants can perform songs in a free order in accordance with the order of songs submitted to the committee no later than July 4, 2020.
3. Repetition
During the performance, the participant is not allowed to stop in the middle of singing or repeat the song for any reason, unless requested by the jury.
4. Duration


Category
	Duration (minute)
	Information
	Category A
Children’s Choir
Category B
Teenagers’ Choir
	≤ 8
	* The duration count starts from the beginning of the first song until the closing of the last song (excluding pauses between songs)
* Duration of a song cannot exceed half of the performance total duration.
	Category C
University Choir
Category D
University Choir
Category E
Adult Choir
	8 s.d.12
	Category G
Popular Song
	8 s.d. 10
	Category F
Indonesian Folk song
	≤ 12
	* The duration count starts from the entrance of the first performer to the exit of the last performer.        
* Duration of a song cannot exceed half of the performance total duration.
	Grand Prix Round 
	≤ 8
	

5. Music accompaniment and Musicians
* Musical instrument. The committee is providing a Grand Piano only on the stage.  Participants are allowed to bring and use other acoustic musical instruments, without limitation in number. Please pay close attention to the performance's duration. The instruments loading process is the participants' responsibility. For participants listed in the Indonesian Folk Songs category, accompaniment must use the original music instruments of the corresponding song instruments. 
* Musician. Participants have the freedom to determine the musicians according to the needs and available stage.


6. Performers
Every performer consists of singers, conductor, and musicians. The number of singers is according to the provisions of each category, while the total number of performers is waived to the participants by adjusting the available stage. The stage size will be announced later


7. Performance orders
FPS XXVI ITB 2020 committee will announce the performance order of each category online, no later than August 1, 2020.




Scoring and Judging


Qualification Round
No feedback is given to participants.


Competition Round and Grand Prix Round
The scoring and judging rules for Competition Round and Grand Prix Round are as follows :
1. The jury consists of prominent figures in music and choir that are competent in their respective fields of expertise.
2. The jury’s decision is final.
3. Participants’ performances will be scored based on these criteria :
Aspects
	Maximum Score
	1. Singing Technique
   1. Musical
      1. Rhythm
      2. Intonation
      3. Intensity
      4. Tempo
   2. Choral
      1. Choral Sound
      2. Breathing
      3. Articulation
      4. Blending
      5. Balance
      6. Diction
	40
	2. Artistic Quality
1. Expression
2. Interpretation
3. Stylistic Performance
4. Creativity
	40
	3. Overall Performance
1. General Impression
2. Dynamics
	10
	4. Songs Level of Difficulty
	10
	Total Score
	100
	








Awarding


Participants with qualified score based on the jury’s decision will be able to achieve the following awards :


1. Certificates to be given to all choirs that meet the criteria for the Competition Round. 
Score
	Rank
	85.00 - 100 
	Gold
	75.00 - 84.99
	Silver
	65.00 - 74.99
	Bronze
	< 65.00
	Diploma
	

2. Medals to given to choirs within Gold, Silver, and Bronze rank. 
3. Category Winner titles are given to highest-scoring choirs in each category according to the following criteria :
   1. 1st Winner with a score with a minimum score of 85.00
   2. 2nd Winner/Runner Up with a minimum score of 75.00
   3. 3rd Winner/2nd Runner Up with a minimum score of 65.00
All three category winners will be awarded with FPS XXVI ITB 2020 Category Winner Trophy based on their ranking.
4. Grand Champion title is given to the highest-scoring choir on Grand Prix Round. The Grand Champion will be awarded with FPS XXVI ITB 2020 Grand Champion Trophy. 
5. Others :
   1. Special appreciation for the premiere of a new composition or arrangement.
   2. Best Conductor title.
   3. People’s Favorite title.









Registration Requirements



1. Online registration will be open from 9 December 2019 to 14 March 2020
2. Participants must fill the registration form available on the official website www.fpsitb.com and upload the following documents:
1. Choir biodata (choir name, address, phone number, e-mail address, general description, list of achievements).
2. PIC biodata (name, address, phone number, passport photo[a], proof of identity).
3. Audio recording(s) of the selected piece(s) uploaded in a form of accessible link (separately for each category) written in this format: bit.ly/[Category Code]_[Choir Name]
e.g. if PSM-ITB registers for D Category (University Choir), the link format is bit.ly/D_PSM-ITB  
4. Obligatory[b] documents:
* Photo representing the choir in the format of .jpg, .jpeg, or .png (maximum file size 2MB) named as Photo_[Choir Name]
e.g. Photo_PSM-ITB
* Choir logo in the format of .jpg, .jpeg, or .png (maximum file size 2MB) named as Logo_[Choir Name]
e.g. Logo_PSM-ITB
* Document for Qualification Round in .pdf format named as Document_[Choir Name] including:
* Statement/ declaration of audio recording’s authenticity 
* Program plan for each category in the given format e.g. Document_PSM-ITB
e.g. Document_PSM-ITB
3. The Registration fee for each contestant consists of:
1. An administration fee of Rp500.000,- (five hundred thousand rupiahs) covering the registration Qualification Round selection process.
2. A participation fee of Rp2.500.000,- (two million five hundred thousand rupiahs) for each registered category. Every addition will charge the same amount of fee. Participation fee confirms the registered choir as an official participant of FPS XXVI ITB 2020.
Payment due date for the registration fee is the same as the final date of registration, 14 March 2020. Every participant has to complete the registration fee payment corresponding to the registered category before the due date. Otherwise, the participant will no longer be considered participating in the competition.
In case of the participant not passing the Qualification Round, the registration fee will be fully returned. For the case of the participant passing the Qualification Round but does not complete the re-registration process until a given date, the registration fee will not be returned. 
4. Proof of Payment for registration (administration and participation) fee in the format of .jpg, .jpeg or .png, named as Proof of Payment_[Category Code]_[Choir Name]. If two or more proof of payments are present, it is required to gather all files in one .zip file.
5. Submitted registration can not be changed.
6. Participants will receive an e-mail confirming the document submission and payment completion maximum 7 (seven) days after the requirements are received by the committee.   
7. The committee will conduct a Qualification Round (program and audio recording selection). Qualified participants will be announced through the registered Contact Person (CP)’s e-mail as well as the instructions on re-registering.   
8. Qualified participants must re-register in accordance with the instructions given to the CP via e-mail. For participants who do not pass the Qualification Round, participation fee will be returned to the registered CP’s bank account maximum 2 (two) weeks after the announcement. Any bank account other than BNI (Bank Negara Indonesia) will be charged with an additional transfer fee of Rp6.500,- (six thousand five hundred rupiahs). 
9. Qualified participants must fill the online registration form on the official website and provide the following documents:
   1. List of songs that will be performed on Competition Round and Grand Prix Round (program list).
   2. List of performers
   3. Documents that must be sent via post:
      1. Music performance license. 
      2. Original music sheet for every song piece (7 copies of each song).
The documents must be received by the committee as late as 31 May 2020 at the following address:
PSM-ITB Secretariat
West Campus Center Basement, Bandung Institute of Technology, Jl. Ganesha No. 10, Bandung 40132


10. All participants who have completed the re-registration will be confirmed by the committee as official participants of FPS XXVI ITB.  




Violations



Violation of the regulations set by the committee may result in (1) disregard of the choir’s registration status, (2) non-refundable registration fee, (3) disqualification.


Registration
1. Registrants that cannot pay the registration fee within the registration period will be considered not participating.
2. Participants that fail to re-register within the determined period after passing the Qualification Round will be considered not participating and the registration fee will not be refunded. 
3. Participants that fail to submit required documents within the determined period after passing the Qualification Round will be considered not participating and the registration fee will not be refunded.


Performance
1. Discrepancy between the submitted list of performers and actual performers on the day of the competition will result in disqualification.
2. Participants that fail to perform within the duration limits will be disqualified. 
3. Participants that fail to meet the repertoire qualifications will be disqualified. 
4. Participants that fail to provide original score for every song will be disqualified. 




Contact
1. Everything ambiguous regarding the competition can be queried to the committee : 
* E-mail info@fpsitb.com
* Official Account FPS XXVI ITB 2020
2. Preparation and D-day accommodation instruction will be announced furthermore.
3. Every official information is notified only by participant's CP's e-mail and FPS XXVI ITB 2020 website.
4. Everything announced regarding the competition aside from the e-mail and FPS XXVI ITB 2020 official account is not the official response from the committee.